The arbitration court has ordered the North West Department of Health to reinstate its embattled HOD Dr Thabo Lekalakala after he was placed on a special leave pending an investigation into claims of corruption. Lekalakala was suspended in April . His suspension lapsed in June and then he was placed on special leave as he was accused of benefiting from the Gupta linked Mediosa company. He is expected to be back at work on Monday. Health department’s spokesman Tebogo Lekgethwane  welcomed the arbitration verdict made  by  the Public Health and Social Development Sectoral Bargaining Council in November 8. Lekalakala’s alleged involvement in the Mediosa contract  saw the provincial health department workers  protesting and calling for his removal. They refused to be led by a person linked with spending millions of rands on a mobile clinic rather than using that money to pay for their bonuses. Lekgethwane  said Lekalakala was suspended following allegations of procurement irregularities which affected a number of contracts which have since been a matter of forensic investigation. “One such contract is that of Mediosa which has since been terminated,” Lekgethwane said. He said there were two issues which were to be considered in this matter. The suspension of Lekalakala and the disciplinary actions instituted against him. Lekalakala was suspended and returned to work a day after his suspension lapsed, and then he was placed on special leave. He said Lekalakala was suspended with full salary, however, owing to the fact that allegations against him were still being investigated, he was afforded special leave. He said the arbitration verdict which instructs health department to reinstate Lekalakala  was only concerned with the merits of special leave. “The verdict has nothing to do with the investigations and the disciplinary actions. “ The Department can confirm that disciplinary actions are continuing,” Lekgethwane said. Lekalakala has been charged with procurement irregularities and misrepresentation of facts. Specifically on the special leave matter, Lekgethwane said his department was still studying the verdict and applying its mind as to the way-forward. Efforts to get a comment from Lekalakala were unsuccessful.