New adventures, unexplored experiences, the chance to put your feet up, and more Instagram opportunities are just a few of the reasons why people love to travel. And when it comes to escaping everyday life, most people just want to pack their bags and go. To make this dream a reality, you need to decide where you want to go and plan how you’re going to get there. And this is no easy feat. From plane tickets and hotel accommodation to passports and entertainment, it takes time. Computicket Travel and MSC have the answer to planning the perfect holiday, without compromising on the fun. It’s easier to keep to a budget From unexpected meals to keeping your kids busy, holidays can rack up many unexpected costs. When you book a cruise, everything from gourmet cuisine and all-day entertainment is included in the fare. All you have to do is sit back and relax knowing that your holiday needs are covered. Chase sunsets without breaking a sweat When you’re on a cruise holiday you could wake up in a new destination every morning, enjoy changing scenery and experience new adventures every day – all from the comfort of your own suite. And with different ports along the way, cruise liners make holiday adventures a breeze. Do what you want, when you want There is always something to do aboard a cruise ship. From sponsored games and themed events for the younger members of your family to poolside relaxation and sports activities for adults, cruise ships make it easy to stay entertained. Easy meals With everything from gourmet dishes to pizza slices, cruise ships and delicious food go hand in hand. MSC ships are decked out with various bars and restaurants to cater to every taste, and food is available until the early hours of the morning. With Computicket Travel’s range of MSC cruises, planning your cruise holiday couldn’t be simpler. Decide where you want to go, pick a cruise itinerary that includes your dream destination, then sit back and enjoy the holiday of a lifetime. This article was paid for by Computicket Travel.