Babes Wodumo and her former lover and manager Mandla "Mampintsha" Maphumulo may have split, but the two are united in debt after taking R70000 for a concert performance that never happened. The queen of gqom has been accused of giving the popular South Coast Bike Fest 2018 in May a miss and, instead, went to perform at the Namibia Music Awards. Now, irked show promoter Slingshot Productions and event promoter Wozani Africa are trying to recoup the money they forked out for the performance. They claim they were given just nine hours notice by the former power couple. Weeks later, Wodumo and Maphumulo have still failed to pay back the money. The former couple's public parting of ways came days after the concert no-show. The letter dated May 8 from West Ink to Slingshot Productions reads: "This e-mail serves as a confirmation of refund to Slingshot Productions from West Ink Holdings for Babes Wodumo's performance. "The amount of R70000 will be refunded back to the client on the 18th of May 2018. West Ink would like to apologise for the inconvenience caused." The letter is signed by Maphumulo. But despite the promise, the event organiser and promoter are still waiting for their money. Slingshot Productions's Andrew Loubser claimed Wodumo's no-show had arisen out of a previous event she'd missed. "She was a no-show for an event she was booked for a little while back in Namibia. The promoter there decided not to lay charges or sue them, but to rather let her make it up by coming to the Namibian Music Awards instead. "That date of the awards was the same date as her show that we had booked her for at South Coast Bike Fest 2018 and she and her management opted to rather go to Namibia and not play at our event," he said. "This is different to if they broke down on the way to the concert but the reality is that they never intended to play this show. We're going to lay a criminal charge of theft under false pretences," he added. Wozani Africa's Vicky Wentzel described West Ink and Wodumo as "unprofessional". A West Ink representative asked for questions to be e-mailed, but failed to respond.