When you think winter dressing do you imagine long-line camel coats, faux fur, bomber jackets, knee-high boots and heavy cotton sweaters? Yes, we do too. That has become the traditional go-to wardrobe for colder temperatures. However, word on the street has all things pointing to denim. For this winter season, trade your tweed coat for an oversized long-length denim coat, deconstructed dungarees and a denim patchwork jacket sporting different types of the fabric. From trade shows and the runway, these are the top denim trends to look out for: Dungaree Push the classic denim dungaree into modern territory by adding colourful accents and playful elements such as a printed neck scarf and a broche with a floral detail. Wear this casual outfit to a lunch date with the girls.  Dungaree, R4999, Diesel Blouse, R2000, Karen Millen Shoes, R250, Mr Price Neck Scarf, R119, Cotton On Broche (ellicott),  R299, Aldo Gold bracelet, R1 199  American Swiss Gold 4mm bangles, R4 799 American Swiss Gold 9mm bangle, R6 499 American Swiss Patchwork The denim patchwork trend is a move in the right direction as it incorporates the use of recycled material. Repurposed fashion is hardly a new thing, however, the streetwear influence has given it a contemporary twist. There is something about the combination of asymmetrical pieces of different colour denim that can give any outfit a lift. Lasered impressions There's no denying that new lasering techniques offer a different appeal to denim surface designs. Due to this innovation, you no longer need to wait to achieve the perfectly distressed denim with which to pull off just the right amount of rough around the edges for a grunge look. Vintage wash The return of the vintage wash is a clear indication of revisiting denim's roots - functional work wear. This norm-core phase of jeans could not have come at a better time - when the dad aesthetic is at the forefront of trends. A case in point is Virgil Abloh's pairing of a T-shirt and sneakers with formal trousers sporting back-pocket detail.