A man was drugged, robbed and left at a dumping site by women he had given lift to from a popular pub in Tembisa. The 39-year-old man from Boksburg on the East Rand woke up in hospital six hours after he was drugged. His car - a 2013 silver Chevrolet Cruze with registration number CL 12 WS GP - his shoes, driver's licence and other belongings were taken. He said he was sitting with friends outside a pub in Moedi Section at about 3am on Sunday. "The pub was closed and we were sitting outside playing music from our cars. "Two women came to us out of nowhere. One of them was almost naked. People thought it was Zodwa [Wabantu] because of the way she was dressed. It was very cold but she wore a skimpy summer dress that was revealing. "She drew everyone's attention. The other woman wore navy blue jeans and a black jacket," he said. "We then started talking to them. They asked for beers and we gave them. At about 4am I said I was leaving and they asked for a lift. I think they targeted me because I was leaving on my own." The man said the women told him that they were going to Pretoria and asked him if he could drop them where they can find taxis. "The one with a skimpy dress got in the front seat and the other in the back seat. I was drinking juice and they continued to drink beers. I stopped at a garage to refuel and left my juice inside the car when I got out to pump the tyres," he said. The victim said he drank his juice before he drove off, and that was the last thing he remembered. "I believe they drugged me because I do not remember anything after that. I woke up in a Pretoria hospital." The claims consultant for an insurance company said he had not been to work since Monday because he is still feeling sick. The father of two said: "I trusted them because they were women. I also felt sorry for the one in short dress because it was cold. I now believe that she dresses like that to get men's attention. I will never give anyone a lift, be it an elderly person or a child." The man said the stolen car was his family's only means of transport. Police spokesman Captain Manyadza Ralidzhivha said they were investigating a case of theft. On October 23 2014, Sowetan reported that two men who picked up women at a popular shisa nyama in Tembisa at night were drugged and robbed. The men said they passed out in the early hours of the morning and only recovered the next day to find that their car had been stolen. A few days later, another man reported that he was drinking with friends at a pub in Kempton Park when he noticed two women. He offered to buy them drinks and they went to his place at around 1am. He said one of the women offered him a sweet. The man woke up after 16 hours, naked, while the women had disappeared with his car. In the same month, a Pretoria man said he was robbed by two women that he gave a lift to near a tavern in Pretoria. He passed out for three days and woke up in hospital after drinking whiskey with the women in his house. His wife's car was gone.