Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga has accused the opposition in the council, led by the ANC, of using the allegations of impropriety against city manager Moeketsi Mosola to get rid of him. The mayor told journalists on the sidelines of the special council sitting on Wednesday that he has received a letter threatening him with a vote of no confidence if he tabled the preliminary report into allegations swirling around Mosola. “It is a given fact that they are after me. You know they have been doing that. It has been something that has been happening for the longest of time and now they have seen the gap,” Msimanga said. The mayor did not say who the letter was from but said he was not going to back down and will go on to table the report. Msimanga said the opposition has been making a lot of noise calling for action to be taken against Mosola but said it was the same opposition that was now frustrating this process. The bone of contention was Msimanga’s proposal that the report into allegations of impropriety against Mosola in the awarding of a R12-billion tender to consultancy firm Glad Africa be heard behind closed doors. Spokesperson of the ANC caucus in council, Lesego Makhubela, said the speaker would receive a notice of a vote of no confidence against Msimanga. “The speaker convened this special council sitting because of the proposal from the ANC… the buck stops with (Msimanga); because he was part of all this, we are going to file for a vote of no confidence,” Makhubela said. Following much remonstration from the ANC and the EFF, the speaker, Katlego Mathebe, has since ruled that the council adopt the ANC and EFF proposal that the matter be discussed openly. ANC chairperson in Tshwane, Kgosi Maepa, said it was the ANC that exposed the allegations against Mosola and said the ANC wanted to show that the DA was corrupt. He said Mosola was taking the fall for the DA, saying the mayor must take responsibility because the buck stopped with him. “The mayor is the highest political representative of the city so if any responsibility and accountability has to be taken, it must be taken by him…the mayor himself must step down,” Maepa said. 