The management of a Gauteng hospital is trying to trace a man seen insulting and threatening to beat up a female medical doctor inside a paediatric ward. The cellphone footage which has been making the rounds on social media shows a chaotic scene inside the ward with people shouting while a security guard restrains the man from getting closer to the doctor. The incident apparently took place at the Leratong Hospital in Krugersdorp on the West Rand. “Who do you think you are? You are full of sh*t. I’ll wait for you outside. I will show you,” the man yells. He then turns to address another person in the room, explaining that he does not want to argue with a woman. “I told her that she must not speak because she is a woman, and I am talking to this man over here,” he said. At least two other men can also be seen swearing and pointing fingers at the doctor. The doctor can be seen putting on her surgical gloves while telling the angry men to leave the ward. The men can also be heard saying that the service at the hospital was poor. The hospital’s CEO, Grey Dube, told SowetanLIVE that the chaos was sparked by the man’s dissatisfaction with the medical treatment his child was receiving from staff. Dube said the man had brought in a three-year-old child who was hit by a car.  “The appropriate treatment was administered to the child and the doctor wanted to keep the child at the facility for a 24-hour observation,” he said. The doctor has apoken out on the Dube said the man refused for his child to remain at the hospital. “He wanted to remove the child from the facility.” Dube said they were trying to trace the man with the view of opening a criminal case against him. Young Nurses Indaba Trade Union deputy president Fikile Dikolomela-Lengene said the video was disturbing while it highlights safety issues faced by staff at hospitals and clinics in the province. Dikolomela-Lengene said the man’s language also reflected that he does not respect women.  “You can hear him saying that he does not want to talk to a woman,” she said.