A Limpopo man who allegedly stormed into Letaba Hospital, in Tzaneen, Limpopo, and stabbed his lover several times after accusing her of cheating will appear in the Nkowankowa Magistrate's Court today. The 34-year-old man from Dan Village, outside Tzaneen, was allegedly armed with a knife when he walked through the security gate at the hospital undetected and went straight to the theatre ward where his girlfriend works as a cleaner. The incident also exposed security lapses at the hospital. Police said the suspect was arrested on Monday night and he would appear in court today. Yesterday, Sowetan found Lorraine Kgobe, 32, nursing multiple stab wounds in the intensive care unit of the same hospital where she works. However, Kgobe refused to speak about her ordeal, saying she felt uncomfortable speaking about the incident. Her mother, who only identified herself as Mrs Kgobe, told Sowetan in a telephonic interview yesterday that she couldn't sleep on Monday night after hearing of the violent attack. "I'm hurt of course, my daughter nearly died. No one is perfect, and those who call her names should know they are not perfect," she said. Kgobe was responding to allegations on social media that her daughter cheated on her partner. A senior nurse, who asked to remain anonymous, said Kgobe had 13 stab wounds. "She was stabbed twice on her buttocks and 11 on her back," she said. One of the security guards who attended the scene said the suspect was a frequent visitor at the hospital. "He came here and was allowed in without being searched since security guards know him. We did not hear them arguing, but only when the woman started screaming, calling for help," he said. The guard said the man threatened to stab anyone who tried to break the fight. He said the woman ran through the passage but collapsed, while the man fled before the response team arrived. Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba visited the victim and said the incident exposed security at the hospital. "Our preliminary investigations have revealed that security is found wanting here. We will deal with this matter seriously," Ramathuba, who strongly condemned violence against women, said. Kgobe was assigned two security guards following the attack. A nurse at the hospital, who asked not to be named, said they were worried about their safety at the hospital. "How can security guards fail to detect that the man was armed? Everyone coming in should be searched, whether they are known or not," said the nurse, apprehensively. National Education, Health and Allied Workers provincial secretary Adam Jacobs said the incident could have been prevented if the security guards were doing their job. Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said the suspect faces a charge of attempted murder.