Despite having her  dream of becoming a medical doctor not being realised, Annacletta Hantsi was never deterred from aspiring for a better life. Hantsi, 50, who was born without hands, is a security manager at Odi community correctional services in Mabopane, north of Pretoria,  where she supervises 40  officers. Despite odds stacked against her, she worked hard to achieve greatness. After completing her matric with a distinction at Tsekong Secondary School  in Mount Fletcher in  Eastern Cape, Hantsi   applied to study medicine at the Sefako Makgatho University  in GaRankuwa, Gauteng, in  1990. However, her dreams appeared shattered in the  first week  at the university  when she was  told  there were certain things she could not do as a doctor because of her condition. "The treatment I received still hurts me to this day. I feel like I was never  given an opportunity to prove myself," Hantsi said. But the mother of two sons  never gave up to  aspire for  a better life. She went on to study for a BSc  degree in psychology which  she completed in 1996 at the same university. Growing up in a family of eight children in a village in  Eastern Cape, Hantsi said  her disability was not a death sentence. She said she struggled to find work until she joined the Department of  Justice and Correctional Services  in 1999. "My family prepared me for life's challenges because they never gave me a special treatment. I did not attend special schools, and  was expected to do everything that other children did, including playing netball," she told Sowetan. "Those things prepared me for difficult  situations in life. I can drive a car,  use a computer, cook, iron, clean and do gardening. I can do everything that other people do," she said. Hantsi rose through the ranks in the department  until she was appointed as a  security manager in 2015.  Her  responsibilities include   supervising  correctional officers who monitor parolees. She said some of the biggest challenges the department faced  was to monitor offenders addicted to  nyaope. "It is difficult for addicts to comply with the rules. We are often forced to take them back to jail to complete their sentence." Hantsi encouraged parents to support children with disabilities. "How your child deals with challenges in life starts  at home. I encourage parents not to hide their children and to take them to school where they will be empowered." Hantsi said she would like to see herself working on the disability desk in parliament. "I would like to be among the people who make decisions  for the disabled people because I know the challenges they face. A young woman should never have to go through the pain of being  barred from being a doctor because they do not have hands," Hantsi said.