You'd been forgiven for thinking you're seeing double in every class from grade R to Grade 7 at Nqobane Primary School in Zwelibomvu. That's because the semi-rural school outside Marianhill in Durban is home to 21 sets of twins - and even a set of triplets – amongst its 730 pupils. The school's astonishing multiple-birth record – which could be one of the highest in the country - is now cause for celebration. Principal Nkosinathi Zondi has teamed up with a local businessman‚ Mdu Mabaso‚ to arrange a "Celebrate a rare moment" event to mark the twins at the school. He also wants to use the occasion to create awareness about what was once a Zulu cultural taboo. “If you look at it in the context of Zulu culture‚ twins‚ in the olden days were considered taboo and one would often be killed or sent away. As educators‚ we are here to make a change. It is our job to celebrate what was once considered bad to show people it is no longer a bad thing‚” said Zondi. Lindiwe Ingela‚ 34‚ mother of Amahle and Ayanda‚ said: “I am overjoyed that my kids will be honoured and celebrated and showered with gifts‚ I am grateful to the school”. In Grade R there are twins Mlando and Lwazi Mabaso (the latter starts school next year)‚ Siyanda and Andile Bhengu‚ Sbonelo and Bonisile Mdadane and Sphiwokuhle and Sphelelo Mpanza. Twins Athandwa and Uyanthndwa Hlophe‚ Amahle and Ayanda Ingela and Nokuphila and Sphilasande Thabetha are in grade one. Twins Wandile and Wande Maqoba are in grade two while triplets Siyamthanda‚ Sneliswa and Simphiwe are in grade 3. In grade 4 there are four sets of twins: Thamsanqa and Thabo Mkhize‚ Abraham and Obam Shabala‚ Luyanda and Alwande Nyanda and Thulile and Thobile Jama. There are three sets of twins in grade five: Simphiwe and Phiwokuhle Vilakazi‚ Slindokuhle and Lindokuhle Gumede and Bongumusa and Siyabonga Mabaso. Another pupil‚ Melokuhle Mkhaliphi‚ lost his twin sibling. Anele and Ayanda Hlongwane and Senzo and Sizwe Mkhaliphi are in grade 6. Grade seven pupil Londa Memela also lost his twin sibling.