The investigating officer in the case of three people arrested in connection with an alleged attempt to defraud a bank account of R100-million has been ordered by court to return to Gauteng to verify the new addresses of two of the accused. The residential addresses that Nwabisa Goci and Tshepo Daniel Sehlapelo had previously provided were found to have been incorrect. Sergeant Patricia Mokonyama of the Serious Commercial Crimes Unit in Polokwane was told by the Praktiseer Magistrate's Court in Limpopo on Friday to go and verify the new addresses provided by the two accused, to decide on bail. Mokonyama told the court during the bail application on Wednesday that she had gone to the addresses provided by the two, only to discover that they were incorrect. The two were arrested together with Ugandan national Aaron Madanda when they allegedly tried to open accounts using fake identity documents at a bank in Burgersfort, Limpopo, on July 20. They allegedly wanted to transfer R100-million from an account belonging to Royal Bafokeng Investments, with the assistance of a bank employee. But the employee blew the whistle, alerting her manager who then called forensic investigators, leading to the arrest of the trio. Mokonyama told magistrate Betty Mogashoa that the residential addresses Goci and Sehlapelo had provided were incorrect. After her testimony, defence lawyer Milton Motene came up with new addresses for his clients and requested the court to order Mokonyama to go and verify them. Goci, who was also found to be in possession of a second identity document which identifies her as Albertina Kekana, had claimed to be residing at an address on Sagewood Road in Midrand. But Mokonyama told the court that she went to the place and found no one. She said upon further investigation, a security officer told her that the flat in which Goci had claimed to be living was actually owned by an Indian couple. Sehlapelo, who also has a second ID which identifies him as Nkosinathi Emmanuel Masangu, had claimed to be residing at Greenstone Hill, a block of flats situated on Ruben Joubert Street in Johannesburg. Mokonyama told Mogashoa that during her investigation, she discovered that Greenstone Hill was a suburb in Edenvale in Ekurhuleni, and not in Johannesburg. Goci, who is nine-months pregnant, claimed that the new address she provided to court belongs to her boyfriend. Sehlapelo also provided a new residential address, also in Gauteng, but different from the previous one. "You will have to go and verify the new addresses before judgment [in respect of their bail application] can be passed," said Mogashoa. Madanda's case was not entertained on Friday because he was found to be an unreliable person. The 39-year-old was found to have a pending case of fraud in Sandton, Johannesburg, and also provided a questionable passport number. The three suspects are due to appear in the same court on August 10, where judgment will be delivered on whether they will be granted bail or not.