The Baron Group of restaurants will serve its steaks without basting from St George’s Fine Foods while it looks for a new supplier. This is the reaction from the restaurant chain in the continuing fallout after a video went viral depicting St George’s Fine Foods director Adam Catzavelos‚ who has subsequently been dismissed‚ uttering the k-word on a beach. St George’s Fine Foods in Johannesburg has been a supplier of basting sauces to the Baron Group‚ which said it had terminated its business dealings with the supplier with immediate effect. In the video‚ which went viral on Tuesday‚ Catzavelos used the k-word while celebrating the fact that no black people were on the beach. It was unclear exactly where the video was shot. In a statement‚ the Baron Group of restaurants said it had been previously supplied its steak-basting sauce by St George’s Fine Foods‚ where Adam Catzavelos was the marketing director. “[On] the morning of August 22 we were made aware of the recent racist video (from Catzavelos) and investigated. We found his video to be completely unacceptable and have with immediate effect terminated our business with St George’s Fine Foods‚” said Gareth Spencer‚ director of the Baron Group. The decision by the Baron Group comes after a statement from the family-owned company and the Catzavelos family early on Wednesday‚ in which they said that Adam had been dismissed from the business with immediate effect. The family said his minority shareholding would be unwound as soon as possible. When it rains it pours. Another restaurant, Braza Emperor's Palace, has cut ties with St George’s Fine Foods after a racist video of its director Adam Catzavelos went viral. Read the statement below: We at Braza have noted with disgust the racially inflamed remarks made by Adam Catzavelos a director of St George’s Fine Foods on social media. These remarks contained in a video were brought to our attention this morning.We have taken steps to ensure that our restaurants Braza Emperor’s Palace & Braza Silver Lakes, sever all business relationships with St George’s Fine Foods with immediate effect. We distance ourselves from these remarks and have communicated to St George’s Fine Foods that we will no longer we doing any business with them nor will we be doing any business with an entity which is in any way associated with Adam Catzavelos. Additional reporting by staff reporter