A popular TV producer and TV production company owner and his actress wife separated allegedly because she found sex tapes and images of her husband cheating with his subordinates and other nyatsis. Also central to the separation appears to have been the husband's confrontation with his wife: he accused her of harassing a model that he's apparently having an affair with. Things got really ugly when, the wife said, he smashed her cellphone by throwing it out of his car window in a fit of rage. According to the wife's statement made under oath, she discovered images and texts of the conversations between the hubby and the model and was shocked to find they indicated that the pair were having an affair behind her back. She also claimed that her husband had accused her and her mother of being witches because they had sprinkled anointing oil on the walls of their matrimonial home in Johannesburg. The wife also accused the husband of invading her privacy. She said he had stolen her private diary and taken pictures of details containing private and intimate information about her life. He had threatened to make them public after she'd fled from their matrimonial home, she said. In response to an application by the husband, that she illegally withdrew R2.5-million from their business account, the wife said that she withdrew the money as her buyout/payout. She said she wanted to hold the money as ransom due to his threats that she was going to leave the company, where she is a director, with nothing. The allegations are contained in an affidavit in her application to the family court where she is seeking a protection order against her husband. The application, according to court documents obtained by Sunday World, was filed on February 13 at the Johannesburg Family Court. In the same papers, she revealed that her estranged husband smashed her cellphone after she resigned from their company. She said he accused her of sabotaging the company as she did not afford him the opportunity to write her resignation letter to their clients. "When I refused to apologise ... he said 'I will make you sorry' then proceeded to grab and throw my phone from the car, out the window and against the wall of the house with power, thus smashing it." She said despite opening a case of malicious damage to property against her husband, and signing a settlement agreement where they both agreed "not to insult, verbally abuse or threaten or assault the other party", her husband continued to be deceitful, cross her privacy boundaries and insult and threaten her. The wife this week refused to comment on the application, saying she does not discuss her private life in the media. When contacted for comment, the husband said he did not know anything about the application. He said it was news to him. "I'm going to lose a lot of business because of this story. "This is going to destroy my company," he said when asked about the sex tapes allegations. The wife said the TV producer subjected her to emotional abuse, economic abuse and career sabotage during their marriage . She alleged that he cheated on her most of their relationship, but she chose to stay on hoping that he would some day grow up and change as he promised to. "My environment also conditioned me to believe that all men cheat and better to remain with a man that offers security," reads the affidavit. She said things got worse after he smashed her cellphone and she was forced to use his old phone which they used as a backup. "I found messages and sex videos that he did not bother to delete between him and his conquests...," she stated. She further claimed he trespassed at her mother's home and went to her bedroom to rummage through her personal belongings. "He read and took pictures with his phone of very intimate and private details that he has now sent to me via WhatsApp and threatens to use against me... and defame me," she said. "He continues to refer to my mother and I as witches." The woman claimed the husband also used his power to try and sabotage her musical career, including lying to prevent her attending the Sama awards and plying her staff with alcohol to sabotage her birthday concert. The musician said she resigned from their company because of his constant criticism in boardroom meetings and his penchant of reversing her decisions to make her look incompetent. "I could not function with the humiliation of knowing that he was having extramarital affairs at the workplace."