EFF leader Julius Malema recognised former presidents but excluded Jacob Zuma from his salutations during the funeral service of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Malema received the loudest cheers at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto on Saturday. The EFF leader recognised former presidents Kgalema Motlanthe and Thabo Mbeki at the beginning of his speech with special salutations to President Ramaphosa. He said that Ramaphosa must rest assured that EFF members in attendance will cheer his speech because they recognise him as the president. Malema also said that Ramaphosa was Madikizela-Mandela’s President. Turning to the coffin of Madikizela-Mandela that was placed in the middle of the stadium, Malema echoed the sentiment that has been trending; that the fallen struggle icon did not die but multiplied. “I am here not to bury Mama because mothers don’t die, they multiply into millions of red flowers of love,” said Malema. “I’m here Mama, to express my condolences to your biological children whom I know and the rest of the Madikizela and Mandela family.” “I’m here to look at your grandchildren in the eyes and tell them that they will never be treated like they’ve got leprosy for as long as I’m still alive,” said Malema to loud cheers. Malema went on to attack those whom he said had betrayed Madikizela-Mandela, specifically calling out United Democratic Front. He said that those that had betrayed her are now the ones who are crying the most. "Mama, the UDF cabal is here. The cabal that rejected you and disowned you and sent you to the brutal apartheid regime is here," said Malema. "When they called a press conference during the dark days of apartheid. When called a press conference when the regime was prepared to kill and said in that press conference you are not part of them. They are here today. "Mama why did the UDF call a press conference to disassociate themselves from you because you were never a member of the UDF, you were a member of the ANC. You were the only one who was pronouncing the ANC in the 80's. Why did the UDF see the need to disassociate themselves with a person who not their member? He continued: "Mama, you never told me how we must treat them when they come here. I'm waiting for a signal Ma."