Incredible Happenings Ministries leader Prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng was allegedly racially abused by a white car-tracking company employee when he told the diminutive clergyman that he was a "black shortie" and "ka***r Mboro". The man also allegedly threatened to split Mboro's brains with a bullet and beat the Bible dust out of the popular evangelist. The incident occurred at a filling station known to Sunday World in Alberton, East Rand, on Thursday afternoon after an imbroglio over parking space. Mboro phoned the police, who arrived at the station and arrested the suspect and charged him with intimidation and crimen injuria.Gauteng police spokesperson Mavela Masondo confirmed the incident. Masondo said the suspect was arrested and appeared in the Alberton magistrate's court on Friday and was released on R500 bail. Relating his ordeal, Mboro said he mistakenly parked his car on the parking bay line outside the filling station because he was rushing to a meeting. When he came out of the filling station kiosk, he found a white bakkie belonging to a car-tracking company blocking his car. "When I couldn't open the door to my car, I asked the petrol attendants as to who parked me in, and this big white man approached me and said he parked me in because he wanted to teach me a lesson," he said. Mboro said he told him that he had no right to park him in because the filling station didn't belong to him. The preacher also told him that when he parked his car, there was no other vehicle in the parking area. He said the argument erupted between the two of them and the suspect subjected him to a barrage of racial epithets. "He said to me, 'look how big I am. There is nothing you can do to me. You're a black shortie, ka***r Mboro. I will beat you up and shoot and kill you'. He said all these things while touching the holster of his firearm," he said. The man of the cloth said the alleged attacker dared him to summon his congregants and that he would floor all of them with his gun.He said when he further begged him to move his car, the suspect refused and ordered him to pray for the car to move on its own. Mboro said after realising that his life was under threat, he phoned the police who arrived and took a statement from him. He said after taking the statement from him, they arrested the suspect."He first resisted arrest, insisting that he did nothing wrong. But eventually, he was bundled into a police van and taken to the police station," said Mboro. Ola Mncube, a supervisor at the filling station, confirmed the fracas between Mboro and the suspect. "We didn't want to get involved. All we saw was the argument and the police who arrived there and talked to them," she said. Happiness Majola, a supervisor at a restaurant next to the filling station, confirmed the incident but declined to discuss the details with us. "The information you have is the information I also have, so there is nothing I can say in addition," she said. NGWAKOM@SUNDAYWORLD.CO.ZA