Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu has been booted out of the African National Congress Gauteng power structure, the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC). The Gauteng Provincial deputy secretary of the ANC Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko informed Mahlangu yesterday of the decision for her to step down from her duties as a member of the PEC. The decision was made by the party's National Working Commitee based on recommendations by the provincial integrity committee. Her ANC membership, however, still remains. "Please note that whilst the PEC had decided that you should remain a member of the PEC, the NWC has decided that you step down... "Thus, based on the information set out herein-above, it is hereby requested that you kindly step down from participating in the Gauteng Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) - with immediate effect. This request does not affect your membership of the African National Congress," read the letter SowetanLIVE has seen. This comes after pressure faced by the province to remove Mahlangu and Brian Hlongwa from their positions. Mahlangu has been blamed for the death of Life Esidimeni patients while Hlongwa has been implicated in the a report by the Special Investigating Unit in alleged corrupt activities totaling R1.2bn. The families of Life Esidimeni patients marched to Luthuli House on Monday to demand compensation. ANC provincial spokesperson Tasneem Motara told Sowetan she was not aware of the communication however the PEC would be meeting today. In March – retired Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke ordered government to pay the families of all Life Esidimeni patients from R1.2-million each. The crisis caused havoc for the provincial government and the ANC in Gauteng. On Monday, families approached the office of the Gauteng Premier David Makhura demanding accusing provincial government for failing to pay. Unhappy with the response from spokesperson of provincial government Thabo Masebe, the angry families moved to Luthuli House to express their frustration. The allegations against Hlongwa date back to when he was Gauteng Health MEC between 2006 and 2009. Hlongwa has previously survived a motion of no confidence, put forward in the legislature by the DA and the EFF, for him to step down following the release of a report by the Special Investigative Unit (SIU) in May, which implicated Hlongwa and other officials in alleged corrupt activities during his tenure as health MEC. Hlongwa resigned as chief whip of the ANC in the legislature at the end of October.