Legendary musician Sello "Chicco" Twala has launched a manhunt for the man behind the Man's Not Barry Roux Twitter account who accused him and his son Longwe of being responsible for the death of slain Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa. Sunday World can reveal that Twala has hired a team of forensic social media experts to unmask the real account holder and hand him over to the police for defaming him and his son. This after the camouflaged user went on a drive two weeks ago and tweeted that Longwe fatally shot Senzo using Twala's gun after an argument over his then girlfriend Zandi Khumalo. He further claimed that Twala bribed all the witnesses to withhold information that could lead to his son's arrest. Twala's manager Lebo Nqolobe confirmed that the businessman had hired forensic experts to expose the person behind the parody account. "You will remember those tweets became a national topic in all the media with some people out there believing this nonsense. So that damaged the reputations of Chicco and Longwe." Nqolobe said Twala hired the experts at his advice to track down the account user after realising that the matter affected him and his family. Twala confirmed that he hired forensic experts to hunt down the account user. "I met with the forensic experts three weeks ago and I'm satisfied with the progress they have made so far. Soon we will know who this man is and the truth will come out. What bothered me was that this man is even saying stuff that I don't even know about." Twala disputed the account user's version that his gun was used by Longwe to kill the Bafana Bafana goalkeeper and captain. "Police confiscated my firearm for ballistic tests and found that my weapon didn't match the make and the name of the gun that was used to murder Senzo. "The gun was returned to me. My son's cellphone was confiscated by police and was later returned to him because nothing implicated him." Twala also said when the Hawks replaced the police on the murder investigation, they picked Longwe up from his house and questioned him together with other witnesses. "They were satisfied with his version of the story. Now if this man said I bribed people to not tell the police that Longwe killed Senzo using my gun, then I should be the most powerful man on earth. I mean Senzo's friends Tumelo and Mthokozisi were in the house, so why should they protect Longwe and me?" Meyiwa was gunned down in then girlfriend Kelly Khumalo's family home in Spruitview, Ekurhuleni, in 2014. No arrests have been made.