The family of slain 26-year-old woman who was beaten to death, allegedly by her boyfriend who claimed she committed suicide, are demanding he be arrested. Zodwa Mzizi died from internal bleeding following a severe attack on Thursday last week in Evaton, south of Johannesburg. Her 39-year-old boyfriend and father of one of her children has fled. Family members said the fugitive had told them that Zodwa died after overdosing on pills. But postmortem results have put her death to haemorrhaging as a result of multiple blunt force trauma. Zodwa's sister, Pinky, said they received a call from the boyfriend on Thursday informing them that Zodwa had been admitted to hospital. "He said he does not know what happened but thinks that Zodwa overdosed on pills, because he found her on the floor in the toilet with empty pill containers next to her," said Pinky. "He first took her to the clinic earlier [on the day] and he didn't tell us. He then left with her to Baragwanath Hospital where she died, and only informed us an hour later." She said the doctors have disputed the boyfriend's version that her sister died from an overdose, telling the family Zodwa had sustained an injury to the back of her head. "The postmortem results confirmed what we suspected. The only way someone could end up with injuries like those is if they were beaten up. The doctors told us she bled on the inside, and that her brain was swollen. She had bruises all over her body. It looked like she was badly assaulted." Pinky showed Sowetan the clothes her sister wore on the day she died. Her morning gown was muddied and dirty and her T-shirt had blood stains. She added that the family had received an SMS from Zodwa [on the day of her death] which read: "If anything happens to me, ask him." Zodwa's cousin, Nomasonto Gamede, said: "We want this guy to be arrested because he is lying. His story does not make sense. The police said they will arrest him soon." Gamede said the charge had been changed from an inquest to murder after the family showed the police the results of a postmortem. Police spokeswoman Constable Maria Letsele confirmed that a case of murder was being investigated. "The suspect has not been arrested yet because he has fled," Letsele said.