The resolution by the ANC in Gauteng to scrap e-Tolls is all bluster but there won’t be any action taken towards this, says the Democratic Alliance. The party’s Senior Media Issues Specialist in Gauteng Warren Gwilt said the ruling party lacks the political will needed to implement its own resolution. “This is what happened in 2014 when David Makhura became premier but, instead, they reduced the fees only to raise them the following year. This is only an election ploy because they realised that next year it is elections,” said Gwilt. Speaking to SowetanLIVE, Gwilt said the ANC had noticed that the collection agency is making all the money whilst Sanral is running at a loss. The DA’s stance has the support of some on social media. Social activist Yusuf Abramjee tweeted: “The @GautengANChas agreed that #eTollsMustFall - It’s time!!! The system has failed hopelessly and must be stopped immediately. RT to support. @GautengProvince @gpdrt @SANRAL_za @DoTransport @OUTASA” This was echoed by another Twitter user - @MakhayaDibashe saying: “#etolls #ANC will play hero for scrapping e-tolls because 2019 is coming. You can't play hero for the devil you created.” Twitter user - @sindivanzyl, said if the etolls are scrapped she would demand all the money she has already spent paying the tolls. Meanwhile, the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA), which has opposed the erection of the e-toll gantries, called Makhura to remove them as a matter of immediate effect. “OUTA welcomes the Gauteng ANC’s resolution to scrap the e-toll scheme as it id too much of a financial burden on motorists and commuters. “Currently around 25% of motorists pay their e-toll accounts and, during the 2017/18 financial year, SANRAL and its agency Electronic Toll Collection (ETC), collected only R725-million against invoices issued for R2.7-billion. The administration costs related to collection for the same period were about R650-million. This excludes any costs allocated to SANRAL’s legal expenses or the costs of the summonses issued,” the organisation said in a statement. Outa further said that inorder for Sanral to recoup the outstanding toll fees, it would have to collect from almost two million motorists. “There are approximately two million motorists that SANRAL and ETC would have to sue to collect the outstanding toll fees,” said Outa.