The public gallery of courtroom H in the GaRankuwa Magistrate's Court, north of Pretoria, gasped in shock as magistrate Dan Mokgotsi detailed how rapist ANC councillor Emmanuel Sipho Maselane humiliated his victims by forcing them to perform oral sex on him. "... and you tell me you take care of the community but look at what you did," Mokgotsi said. The magistrate said evidence before court was that one of the victims was so frightened before her ordeal that her bowels became loose. "She asked to relieve herself before you raped her but you refused, and you said she must do it next to you and [then] you raped her. Your victims were treated cruelly. Where is their dignity in this," Mokgotsi asked. The gallery was further overcome by shock when Mokgotsi said Maselane, 35, made his victims wash their genitals with liquor after raping them. Mokgotsi said Maselane, a married father of four, did this to cover his tracks. He sentenced Maselane to a total of 58 years in prison and one life term on four counts of rape and robbery with aggravating circumstances. The magistrate also ordered that the name of Maselane, a Ward 9 councillor in Winterveldt, northwest of Pretoria, be entered into the sex offenders register. Maselane's modus operandi was to give his victims lift in his white Toyota Corolla from taverns in and around Soshanguve. He would then drive to secluded areas where he raped and robbed them of their belongings, including cellphones, at gunpoint. One of the victims was gang-raped by Maselane and his companion. Two of his victims were aged 14 years when the crimes were committed in December 2014 and February 2015. The other two victims were aged 30 and 37. DA's Women's Network regional chairwoman in Tshwane, Mpho Mehlape-Zimu, said the sentence should serve as a deterrent in crimes against women. "Although it will not replace the pain that the victims have felt, justice has been served... the perpetrator is a monster. He does not have a place in society. How do you do this to another human being?" Mehlape-Zimu asked.