Tovarishchi (comrades), The World Cup quarterfinals are upon us! Here is my prognosis. It looks likely that Edinson Cavani, who scored two sublime goals in the last-16 round for the small South American nation, won’t play – which would be a serious blow to the Sky Blues’ attacking impetus, especially as Luis Suárez, despite his high work ethic, has looked a little lethargic when it comes to sharpness in front of goal. France dispatched Uruguay’s much larger and lauded neighbours. The battle that will pique my interest will be the telepathic duo of Diego Godín and José Giménez versus the sprightly genius of 19-year-old Kylian Mbappé. Prediction to win: France This battle royale is undoubtedly the marquee game of the round, and Belgium’s coach, Roberto Martínez, has described it a “dream match” where both teams are likely to score goals as opposed to placing an emphasis on ball possession. I agree with him, hence my prediction below. Both teams tend to play with one defensive midfielder, and this only in name, as they love to contribute in forward positions as well. With Brazil’s Casemiro out, what a luxury coach Tite has in being able to call on Fernandinho to fill the role. The Belgians have shown calm and character in the previous round. Down 2-0 with 30 minutes left on the clock, they called on Marouane Fellaini to give them the long ball option while continuing to play the short ball build-up with a sense of inevitability. Martínez has the small headache of whether to start Fellaini and Nacer Chadli, who were both impactful off the bench. The attacking units could very well balance out, so whoever manages to get their defensive midfielder higher up in the game could tip the scales in their favour. Prediction to win: More than 2.5 goals The Swedes are not a team blessed with ball players, and their possession stats speak volumes about how they reached the quarterfinals: discipline, character, a healthy work ethic, defensive organisation and, against Switzerland, a large degree of luck, as it took a weak Emil Forsberg shot and fortuitous deflection off Manuel Akanji for them to progress. The English attacking unit will have to be patient and make the right choices in the attacking third of the field. Leading up to this game, rest and the rejuvenation of tired legs will be all important for Gareth Southgate. His team looked legless in extra time against the Colombians after having dominated for most of normal time. Kyle Walker will be suspended, so Southgate has to decide: back four or stick with three? Walker provided much-needed pace to cover John Stones and Harry Maguire, but if Gary Cahill or Eric Dier slot into a back three, that element will be lacking. Having said that, the Swedes don’t have much pace up front. Prediction to win: England The hosts have done remarkably well considering their preparation leading up to the World Cup. Despite being exposed by Uruguay in their final group game, they held their nerve and showed off their defensive capabilities. Alan Dzagoev and Yuri Zhirkov are unlikely to take part for the Russians. What Spain lacked with Andrés Iniesta being benched, Croatia will have in Luka Modrić. He and Ivan Rakitić have been the midfield combo of the tournament so far, complementing each other like hand to glove. Prediction to win: Croatia in extra-time Enjoy the quarterfinals…they promise to be another thrilling round of this year’s World Cup. Do zhvidanya. (Until next time.) Online sports betting company Betway will give its customers the chance to participate in its World Cup Russia promotions: the Cup Calendar Challenge. Betway has reached new heights in the South African market with successful and rewarding promotions, and this one is no different. Cup Calendar Challenge Betway is offering South African fans a chance to win daily deals and a shot a share of a grand cash prize in the Cup Calendar Challenge promotion. This promotion runs from June 14 to July 15 2018. Daily deals are offered on every single match all the way up to the finals, and customers can win prizes including smartphones, cash, extra bets and more. Winners of daily prizes will be announced on the following day of any entered special or the following Monday if stipulated. To qualify for the Cup Calendar prize draw, customers need to bet on every round of the 16 games, semifinals, finals and third-place playoff, and they could win a share of R20,000 in cash. The winners of the grand prizes will be announced on Monday July 16 2018.