The 2018 FIFA World Cup is coming to an end as the final is set for this weekend, and without a doubt French forward, Kylian Mbappé, will be the name that remains on everyone's lips long after the tournament ends. As one of the youngest players to debut at this year's World Cup it's no wonder soccer fans are in awe of the young soccer player's speedy skills on the pitch. Can't keep up with the Le Bleu's soccer star? Here are seven things you need to know about the young talent who has been dubbed the new Thierry Henry. 1. Shoe game on fleek Speaking to Hypebeast, Mbappé shared his love for sneakers; the first pair he ever got was a pair of Nike Air Max's. Mbappé also revealed he hopes to have his own custom Nike sneaker, in pink of all colours. 2. Pain in the neck Like many other soccer players Mbappé has a number of nicknames. His most popular one being Donatello the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, while fans have given him the nickname Flash. Another cartoon character name he received was given to him by French teammate Benjamin Mendy who calls him Casse Bon Bon, derived from the French version of American children's cartoon Rugrats. The name means pain in the neck and according to Sportskeeda, Mendy told French paper Le Parisien that Mbappé's clique of friends in the French squad is called Les Razmoket (Rugrats). 3. All for love, all for charity Instead of taking all the money he earns from playing in the 2018 FIFA World Cup, according to online magazine Telesurv, Mbappé's salary and other bonuses are being given to charities and non-profit organisations of his choice. Mbappé said in an interview with French magazine L'Equipe that he chose to do so as he did not care for the money because he plays for the love of the game. 4. Brotherly celebrations Why does Mbappé opt for an arms folded pose after scoring a goal? Daily Mail explained that this originates from him sulking after his younger brother, Ethan Mbappé beat him in a game while playing a FIFA video game. 5. Mbappé stans for Cristiano Ronaldo When it comes to soccer idols, it's Portugal's forward Cristiano Ronaldo who takes the crown. Don't believe us? Check out 14-year-old Mbappé's room below. 6. A love for the tennis court Speaking to Tennis World USA Mbappé shared that his favourite player is French tennis star Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. Mbappé told Tennis World USA that he had aspired to be a tennis player. Although this dream never came true for him he revealed he had a soft spot for the game. 7. King of swag Mbappé revealed in a Hypebeast interview that his mother had forced him to wear bell-bottoms and Velcro strap shoes that he hid by putting his feet in the snow. Commenting on the experience, he said he would rather be cold than look ridiculous.