A discussion meant for two nominees for the Wits Chancellor seat went ahead without the University's backing while one of the candidates failed to show on Tuesday night. Dr Anele Mngadi and her fellow nominee Dr Judy Dlamini were both expected to address students on the role they intend to play should either of them be elected as the varsity's chancellor. Whoever gets the position between the two academics is set to become the institution's first black female Chancellor while stepping into the shoes of former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke. However the University released a statement yesterday distancing itself from the event despite the fact they were listed on the poster amongst the event's backers. “The University is not party to the organisation of this event nor has it authorised any other party to do so on its behalf. The organisation of all events pertaining to the election of the University's Chancellor is the prerogative of the University,” the statement read. The Wits SRC hit back by responding to the statement on Twitter saying that students were in support of the event. “The university can distance itself but us students want to see a change in the chancellor role. The SRC and the Post Graduate Association are urging people to come in their numbers,” they said. The Olives and Plates restaurant was filled to capacity with students but Dlamini did not make it to the event. Instead students and alumni who attended the event were given the opportunity to quiz one of the candidates Dr Anele Mngadi asking burning questions on various issues including challenges faced by black youth, research and transformation. Mngadi spoke about her humble beginnings and her intension to focus on providing more support for students. She said coming from a poor background inspired her to fight against inequality, adding that she was prepared to serve society. Mngadi said she has seen firsthand how black students suffer, starve and sleep inside libraries on campus saying that such issues should be addressed.