Nqobile Majola is one of 19 deaf students completing a gruelling coding course that will allow them to secure work after battling to find jobs. The course - computer programming - is designed specifically to cater for the needs of deaf people by placing them in jobs after completion. "When I apply for jobs I never receive call backs because employers think that I am incapable because I am deaf," she said. The 26-year-old from Pietermaritzburg in KwaZulu-Natal is one of the top students in their first-ever coding class. The class is provided by the Soweto- based Deaf Empowerment Firm (DEF) to teach the youth valuable computer programming skills that are in high demand in the IT industry. "I've worked before as a waitress but it was tedious work. I was never given the opportunity to grow in the company and I think that this is because of my disability." said Majola. According to the South African Human Rights Commission, eight out of 10 people with disabilities are unemployed. In a report titled Disability and Equality in South Africa that was published last year, it was found that black females with disabilities are the most disadvantaged when it comes to employment opportunities, while their white male counterparts find more opportunities. Majola said the course has allowed her to enjoy work. "I wish that employers would give us opportunities," she said. Siyabonga Mathonzi, 23, said he was distraught when he had to resign from his IT job because the environment was not suitable for deaf people. "When there was a meeting I would not get any information, so I could not do my job," he said. Mathonzi said he dreamt of opening an IT company that would tailor its environment to the needs of deaf people. DEF founder Sikelelwa Msitshana said she had also battled to find employment after becoming deaf and this had opened her eyes to the challenges deaf people faced. "I had a thriving career in corporate development before I fell sick. No one would hire me after I became deaf. I knew that deaf people were just as capable of doing the work that hearing people can do," Msitshana said.