We are halfway through the year which means we are halfway close to meeting deadlines on our New Year's resolutions, however for Kwazulu-Natal born Lungi Mchunu this might be a reality she accomplishes this week. Mchunu is on track to becoming the first black woman to sail to the North Pole, as per her expedition to research pollution in the arctic. She arrived in Germany this week as part to prepare for the expedition which was ogranised by German NGO World Arctic Fund. Mchunu's trip to the North Pole is also meant to raise awareness on climate change and the 34-year-old will reportedly be in charge of navigation and operation of the sonar equipment. Mchunu is not alone in being the first women to make extraordinary strides this year. Tumi Morake Veteran South African comedienne will be cracking ribs across the web as she earned her spot in history as the first ever African women to earn a set on popular streaming service, Netflix. She will be part of a comedy ensemble including South African veterans like Loyiso Gola and Riaad Moosa who will be part of stand-up comedy series set for release in 2019.  Along with Gola and Moosa, Morake will film her set in Montreal from July 24 - July 29.  Morake statement as reported by said she was beyond grateful. "I'm putting my best foot forward and I am hoping to do my country proud," said Morake. Seun Adigun Adigun is officially the first-ever African to compete in both winter and summer Olympics. Pulse Nigeria reported that the 31-year-old recently received recognition from the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for her participation in the summer Olympics in 2012 for the 100m hurdles and as captain of the Nigerian women's bobsled team. The latter was also a milestone for Adigun as it was Africa's first female-lead bobsled team to show at the Winter Olympics. Mpho Letsholonyane The sports presenter made entertainment history when she became the first South African woman to host a World Cup Final on television. Mpho Letsholonyane, who is also married to Bafana Bafana midfielder, Reneilwe Letsholonyane, enjoys this milestone having moved to SuperSport in 2013 sharing "this day will go down as a highlight in my sporting career," said Letsholonyane. Kgothatso Montjane Montjane took tennis courts by storm as she became the first wheelchair-bound black South African women to compete in Wimbeldon. TimesLive reported that Montjane who is currently rated eighth in singled and doubles, suffered from Amniotic Band Syndrome, which caused a number of her fingers and legs from developing properly. Montjane had her left leg amputated but this did not stop her from earning colours for ballroom dancing at school. She recently thwarted her German singles partner, Katharina Kruger.