Significant progress has been made in fixing the huge sinkhole that resulted in the caving in of parts of R55 and damaged a number of houses in Laudium, West of Pretoria. The City of Tshwane metro on Monday said 90% of repairs on the 25 metre wide and five metre deep sinkhole have been completed, with total completion expected by the end of next month. Sheila Senkubuge, MMC responsible for roads and transport, said repairs began in earnest in April following heavy rains that saw a manifestation of a number of sinkholes in the capital. She said the site has been secured, geological investigations and repair methods have been done. “While a contractor has been appointed to finalise some of the highly specialised repairs, the city’s internal construction teams will be utilised to conduct repairs at sinkhole sites that do not require specialised methods of repair. The City will also perform safeguarding and drilling investigations at sinkhole sites that require such,” Senkubuge said. The MMC said given the large number of sinkholes in the city, 31 to be precise, they had to act with precision given the nature of damage to services, infrastructure and properties. She said reports compiled by the technical teams highlight in detail the status of every sinkhole in the metro and the current status of repairs. “Two of the five highest ranked sinkholes were repaired in the 2017/18 financial year, with the remaining three earmarked for completion in the first quarter of this year, and three additional sinkholes will be repaired in the current financial year," she said. The MMC said geological investigations and repair methods on the Jean Avenue sinkhole, that has resulted in the shutting of parts of the Jean Avenue and Gerhard Street intersection and closure of a number of shops, have also being completed. She said the site was handed over to the contractor in January, saying phase one was expected to be completed by the end of August and that the road has been partially reopened. Senkubug also noted that the sinkholes in Van Riebeck Avenue in Lyttleton Manor and Willow Drive in Irene have been successfully repaired. She said that R27.5-million was allocated for the repairs of the five of the highest ranked sinkholes while another R25-million will be made available in the next financial year for the rehabilitation of sinkholes.