The man accused of killing Soweto mother Nomsa Hilda Mbuyisa abandoned his bail application in the Protea magistrate's court today. Hector Sipho Mdletje allegedly shot and killed Mbuyisa,39, as she was about to board a taxi to work on Elias Motsoaledi and Machaba drive in Mofolo Section last month.In proceedings that took less than five minutes, Mdletje's lawyer advocate Stephen Mukwevho said they were abandoning bail." At this stage we wish to abandon bail," he said. Mukwevho asked that the case be postponed to July 26. As soon as Magistrate Reginald Dama postponed the case, Mdletje bowed and left the courtroom without looking at the packed public gallery. Outside court Mbuyisa's sister Nonhlanhla Mbuyisa said she was happy that Mdletje remained in custody."We do not want him to get bail because my mother and Nomsa's children are not safe;" she said Nonhlanhla said her family was not coping with Mbuyisa's death."My mother is not coping at all. She is sick, scared and always shaking. I was forced to leave my place and move back home just to support her. Nomsa's children are not okay. The older one is trying to be strong for his siblings but he is not okay. The second one just went silent after the incident. He does not want to talk about what happened. When we try to talk to him he just keeps quiet and the tears roll down his face," she said. Mbuyisa's brother Mohau Mazibuko said he was also forced to leave his place in Orange farm and return home because he feared for his family's safety." My whole family is in danger so we have to be in one place. If the law decides to release him in future then let it be. We will never run away because of him," he said. Social development men's forum, an organisation against the abuse of women and children supported the family in court and by picketing outside court.One of the members Bongani Ngomane said they wanted cases of abuse and killing of women and children prioritised." We were angered by the Police Minister Bheki Cele who said he had priority cases such as that of Senzo Meyiwa. What about women and children? We want these cases prioritised," he said. Ngomane said the organisation plans marches every month to police stations where cases of femicide were reported to express their concerns.