The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) has placed the blame for the organisation being placed under liquidation squarely on the shoulders of EFF leaders Julius Malema and Floyd Shivambu. According to a weekend newspaper, the youth league was liquidated on Thursday after it failed to foot legal costs in a defamation case against Western Cape premier Helen Zille. Zille had filed the claim at the Western Cape High Court against Malema, Shivambu and Andile Lili after they referred to her as a racist. Malema in 2009 had referred to her executive council as a "group of racist Helen Zille garden boys" at a political gathering in Durban. Shivambu had referred to her as a "racist girl and sick woman", further alleging that her all-male executive were her boyfriends and concubines. He also referred to Zille as a "racist, colonialist and imperialist". Malema and Shivambu later apologised, withdrew their statements and became liable to pay Zille's legal costs. The youth league yesterday hit out at the trio. "The judgment comes after the reckless defamation case the premier of Western Cape, Ms Helen Zille, instituted against its [ANCYL] former leaders, Mr Julius Malema, Mr Floyd Shivambu and Mr Andile Lili in 2010. Both parties involved made a private arrangement to settle the matter outside court," the ANCYL said in a media statement yesterday. The league said Malema and company failed to make arrangements to pay the  legal fees as agreed. "The ANCYL was, therefore, made aware of this matter recently. Upon being alerted, we contacted all parties involved to resolve the matter swiftly. "The ANCYL wishes to categorically state that the leadership of the ANCYL has fulfilled its legal obligation and paid the said debt after communicating with the affected parties. "It should be said that this matter was never handed over as a result of the disbandment of the previous structure of the ANCYL." The ANCYL added that it was working working tirelessly to correct the wrongs of past leaders who used to be a bad influence. "We are working to resolve these issues. We are now in consultation with our lawyers to bring the matter to rest as speedily as possible," the statement added. Attempts last night to get comment from the EFF were unsuccessful.