Talented former IBO titlist will square up against "The Rock". Every dark cloud has a silver lining. This is how best to describe the sudden turn of events in the life of former dual world boxing champion Thomas "Tommy Gun" Oosthuizen. A few months ago, his boxing obituary was being written following his substance and alcohol abuse problems and a record of poor discipline which saw him spend some time behind bars. It is the same demons that forced him out of a WBA world title fight against Juergen Braehmer which was scheduled to take place in Germany. The abundantly talented former IBO super middleweight and light heavyweight titlist has now been given a second lifeline by promoter Rodney Berman, who matched him in a bout against Thabiso "The Rock" Mchunu. The battle of the 30-year-old left handers will be contested in the cruiserweight division that will headline Golden Gloves' "Call for Glory" bill at Emperors Palace, East Rand on September 1. Oosthuizen last fought in last May, losing to Igor Mikhalkin for the vacant IBO light heavyweight title in Germany. That defeat was Oosthuizen's first against 27 wins and two draws. On the other hand Mchunu, who is trained by Sean Smith and is ABU and SA cruiserweight champ, last fought last month when he flattened Richards Bolotniks of Latvia in round six at at Emperors Palace. That knockout was Mchunu's 12th in 19 wins against four losses. Oosthuizen, who is trained by Harold Volbrecht, is yet to lose against a South African opponent. Berman says already the demand for tickets is far outstripping availability. "We'll probably have a sell-out before tickets go on sale," said Berman. Mchunu underlined his credentials with a knockout against Bolotniks a fortnight ago while Oosthuizen's narrative only lends itself to drama and excitement. Berman is also toying with several other big local fights, pointing to WBC International mini flyweight champion DeeJay "Bamooza" Kriel against IBO mini flyweight holder and stable mate Simpiwe "Chain Reaction" Konkco as a case in point. He said Lusanda "Mexican" Komanisi against Xolisani "Nomeva" Ndongeni also has the makings of a riveting contest, although it might need the slow burn to ramp up greater public excitement.