The ANC Women's League has once again bemoaned the low number of women who are elected into leadership positions in the party. ANCWL secretary-general Meokgo Matuba yesterday said this was an indication that women still had a long way to go to achieve 50/50 representation in the ANC. She was speaking after the conclusion of two ANC provincial conferences at the weekend, where only two women were elected to 10 top positions available. Gauteng legislature chairwoman of committees Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko and KwaZulu-Natal cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube were the only two women elected to the male-dominated ANC top five of their respective provinces at the weekend. Nkomo-Ralehoko was elected deputy provincial secretary in Gauteng, while Dube-Ncube was elected treasurer in KZN. "It is so disappointing," Matuba said. "We are more than men [in numbers] but we are still ruled by men. We must use our power to change the status quo. Women can lead and are capable." Matuba blamed the failure of women not making it to ANC top positions on women not supporting each other. She also said women did not contest positions during conferences. Matuba said that the women's league had started lobbying structures to support the league's push for a 50/50 representation ahead of the 2022 national elective conference. ANC Youth League Gauteng secretary Bones Modise said delegates at the Gauteng provincial conference which was held at St George's Hotel in Irene, Pretoria, followed a Nasrec-style approach. "Comrades rejected slates and opted for [a] unity approach with relation to the leadership of the ANC," he said. During the national conference at Nasrec last December, Jessie Duarte was the only woman who made it to the ANC top six. Modise said the youth league had wanted economic development MEC Lebogang Maile to become the ANC provincial deputy chairman. Maile lost the race for the position to education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. The newly elected ANC Gauteng chairman David Makhura said the lack of women in the ANC top five must be corrected in the next provincial conference. "There are women in our province who are capable of leading," he said.