Nelson Mandela Day is in full swing, the day commemorates the icon's birthday through celebrating his life and legacy. The first Mandela Day was in 2010, and eight years later people are still doing their best to make a difference in the world in the lives of the less fortunate. Be it through motivational talks or charity, here are five South African faves who are making a big difference on Mandela Day. Kabelo Mabalane The rapper turned fitness fanatic was in Port Elizabeth handing over a Dream Station, which is a mobile library, as part of his and singer Danny K's Shout Foundation. Tema Sebopedi The actress and singer partnered with KFC for their Add Hope campaign which saw her deliver goodie bags to children under the care of the Africa Food for Thought foundation which provides food security to over 18 0000 children. Khabonina Qhubeka The actress may be a heartless villain on popular soap, Isidingo, but Qhubeka had a ball with a group of kids for the #Mandela100Yogathon. The campaign kicked off in Hong Kong with the aim to spread global awareness on health and fitness. The campaign ends on July 26. Thuli Madonsela Through her ThuMa Foundation, Madonsela hosted a motivational event at a community hall in Soweto. The day's events will also include maintenance of Nonto Primary School. DJ Sbu The entertainment and business aficionado is handing out blankets to the homeless. While also dedicating his morning show on Massive Metro, the radio presenter shared motivating words on drug addiction to the homeless guests who also received food packages. Other celebs took to Twitter to share loving words to Madiba. Gospel singer, Dr Rebecca Malope, shared a throwback of her and Nelson Mandela who invited her for tea. Rapper Anatii, who was also present at Mabalane's Dream Station delivery, shared a sweet birthday message to the late icon. Oscar Award winning actress and Terry Pheto, pulled a favourite quote of Mandela's. International stars were not left out of the momentous day. The Laureus foundation which awards athletes for excellence in their respective fields shared a moving video with a number of athletes. This included Serena Williams, Usain Bolt and Cristiano Ronaldo.