Buoyed by his election as the Gauteng chairman, Premier David Makhura has given assurance that there would be no MEC to be removed because of holding a different view in the build-up to the provincial conference. “There is no one who is going to be removed because they held a different view. But we shall not tolerate ill-discipline,” Makhura said in his closing address to delegates at the provincial conference held at St George Hotel, Irene, in Pretoria East, on Saturday night. Makhura also vowed that he will not let down ANC members who voted for him. “I will not let you down. I will not take the mandate of being elected unopposed for granted," he said. Makhura also said the ANC in the province is ready for battle in the 2019 general elections. “We are ready for the 2019 general elections battle. We now have the plan to serve the people of our province,” he said. In what could be interpreted as an attempt to appease voters,  ANC in the province has adopted a comprehensive plan targeting young people, middle and working class. “We have a plan to deal with the economy, jobs and  to make sure that e-tolls belong to the past. We have adopted a comprehensive plan to address socioeconomic problems facing the people of Gauteng. I want to say to the people of Gauteng that the ANC takes you very seriously,” Makhura said. This, therefore, means Gauteng was set to become  the most hotly contested in the elections. He lashed out at ANC members who continue to take the party to court. “There are enemies of the ANC who have bags with the money and are funding ANC members to go to court. We will meet you in court, but whose interests are you serving? Poor people in our ranks are being used,” Makhura told delegates. He said the ANC in the province has decided that the land shall be returned to the people. “This conference has given us the mandate.” This move follows the ANC national elective conference resolution. Public hearings on whether or not land should be expropriated without compensation will be held in the province this week.