It's time to put on your best threads for the 121st Vodacom Durban July. Whether you decide to keep it elegant and classic or try this year's fashion theme: "It Is Time", you can be sure the crowds will be pulled in and the fashion police will see all the hits and misses. Let us take care of the finishing touches for you as we share all the beauty and fashion items you need to add to your racing day arsenal. When packing a handbag beauty kit, a translucent powder for touch-ups is a non-negotiable, especially if you're attending an event and want your beat to stay in place well into the night. Not only will it prevent your coverage from looking sheer and oily in the Durban humidity but this one has no flash-back, so skin will look flawless, even in photos. Don't be shy gents, even a dusting of powder on your skin will keep it looking natural and, like you, put in the extra work. Try: SwiitchBeauty #MatteBounce Powder R150 One giveaway sign of your makeup giving up on you is your lips. Pack a lipstick of your choice or a lip balm in your bag. Men can keep lips looking soft and hydrated by using a nourishing lip balm over dry lips. Ladies can touch up with their lipstick colour after eating or drinking or use lip balm as your secret multi-purpose makeup touch up weapon. Try: Gosh Liquid Matte Lips in The Red, R185 Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Intensive Lip Repair Balm, R270 The July , which is held at the Greyville Racecourse, means if you are insistent on donning your favourite heels, you run the risk of sinking into the often soft grass. Add a pair of heel protectors to your heels to prevent this and the back of your shoes getting dirty, leaving you looking all messy. Try: High heel protectors, R250, Zasttra.com The parties may be hot but as we are all aware, the nights can get quite cold. So gents, once the ladies ask for your jackets, make sure to have extra backup with a great scarf which can also add that extra cool to your fashion ensemble. M Try: Nevin wool scarf, R599, Trenery