The family of a popular Soweto businessman believe that his murder could have been prevented after the same thugs targeted his store for a second time. Enos Tshamano was killed in his Jabulani store on Friday by two armed assailants. The 54-year-old rose to relative success and prominence when he started selling atchar on the side of the famous Koma Road in 2012. He expanded his business and named it Enos Wholesale and Retail before his murder. His other store, in Chiawelo, was robbed two weeks ago and thousands of rands stolen. It was attacked by a group of seven men armed with guns. His nephew Jeffrey Tshamano said the family was disappointed that the perpetrators of the first heist were not arrested before there was a second robbery. Jeffrey said the robbers stole R500 in the second robbery but the greater loss was that Tshamano's life was taken. "There were seven of them and they held up my cousins [Tshamano's children]. Two of them walked into the store, pointed their guns at my cousins and demanded they hand over all the money," Jeffery said. He said the businesses had employed 34 people in Alexandra, Chiawelo and Jabulani. Tshamano had recently opened another branch in Hammanskraal, Jeffrey said. "We are hurt because he was a man of the people. He took care of his community, he gave people jobs so they can put food on the table for their families. If police could have arrested those guys after the first robbery we would be talking about something different now," he said. He described the father of eight as kind, friendly and caring. "He was a businessman, but a family man as well. He wanted to make sure that he provided for his family and that they were well taken off, but also sharing what he earned with those around him." Gilbert Muthumuni, a friend and colleague, told the Sowetan that staff members were left traumatised by Friday's brazen shooting. "An employee recognised one of the robbers who [had] walked into the store and notified Enos. The robber walked out and loitered around while on his phone. "A few minutes later two of his accomplices walked into the store and demanded money from Enos before shooting him twice in the head," he said. Police spokesman Sergeant Vincent Mashiteng confirmed the murder and robbery cases. He said police were searching for the killers. "We are appealing to anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspects to go to the nearest police station," Mashiteng said.