The two Ennerdale police officers accused of killing Innocent Sebediela allegedly attempted to dispose of his body after the murder. This came out during arguments in the Protea Magistrates Court in which the state intended on proceeding with Constable Derrick Johnson, 40 and Constable Abraham Dintwe’s, 33, bail application as a schedule 6 offense. This was done to determine whether Sebediela’s murder was premeditated. The pair is facing charges of murder and torture after they allegedly assaulted and killed Sebediela, 43 in a holding cell at the Ennerdale police station. The prosecutor, Eddie Madubane argued that the pair arrested Sebediela on a charge of house robbery and theft before interrogating him at the police station. He said Dintwe was infamously known as “John Cena” in the community, a reputation he earned for allegedly being efficient in assaulting suspects with the purpose of recovering stolen items. Madubane further said that not only did the two officers conspire to dispose of Sebediela’s body after realising he was dead, but also planned his murder. “After they noticed that he was dead, they went to the deceased’s house and asked his brother about his whereabouts not knowing that the brother knew that the deceased was detained. The applicants’ intention was to dispose of the body,” Madubane said. He argued that the pair had no authority to arrest and detain the deceased along with 6 others. “There is a docket that was opened of house breaking where the deceased was accused. There was an investigating officer assigned to the matter and the applicants were not investigating officers, nor did they have access to the contents of the docket and could not have known who the suspects were” Madubane said. “They went to the location, approached the community about people suspected of committing the crime, found the suspects and took them to the cells where they interrogated them until the deceased died.” He argued that Johnson and Dintwe were not assigned to the docket as investigating officers and were therefore not authorised to apprehend Sebediela and others. The bail hearing continues.