Destiny's Child singer and Broadway star, Michelle Williams, recently revealed she sought help for a mental issue she has struggled with for years.  The 37-year-old star revealed the news on her Instagram, explaining that while she had spent years raising awareness for mental health, she herself had come to the realisation that she too needed to attend to her own. "I recently listened to the same advice I have given to thousands around the world and sought help from a great team of professionals," said Williams on her Instagram post. Celebrity gossip site TMZ revealed the actress had been checked into a mental health institution "for several days" and claimed that it was linked to depression, which she discussed during an interview on American talk show The Talk. In the interview, Williams revealed that she had struggled with depression prior to joining Destiny's Child and only acknowledged it  in her 30s. Williams' depression came as a surprise to many and they shared support for the star, including former band member, LaTavia Robertson. However, a number of Twitter users questioned the role played by the public at large who may have triggered Williams' depression during and after her days as a member of Destiny's Child. A number of other celebrities have come out about dealing with mental issues: Dwayne Johnson The actor and former WWE wrestler told Express that after witnessing his mother's attempted suicide at 15 he struggled with depression. Ata Johnson walked into moving traffic and it was Dwayne who had to pull her out of the road. The actor has since opened up about his struggle and support for mental health awareness. Kid Cudi Since his mainstream debut with hit song Day and Night, the rapper has been open about his depression. In 2016, The Independent revealed that Cudi had checked himself in for professional help following suicide attempts. Mariah Carey The Grammy award winning singer recently told People Magazine that she was struggling with Bipolar II disorder. She also revealed in the interview that she recently sought help after years of denial. Chris Brown Huffington Post revealed that the Beautiful People singer was diagnosed with Bipolar and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in 2016 following a violent altercation where he threw a rock through the window of his mother's car. His PTSD has been linked to domestic abuse by his father, which the singer revealed in a Giant Magazine interview in 2007. If you are struggling with mental health problems, you can seek help from the South African Depression and Anxiety group www.sadag.org