Are you fortunate enough to have someone who helps you take care of your house and garden, picks up your children from school, cleans, and cooks dinner for your family? Have you ever really thought about the sacrifices they make in their own lives to help you run yours? Many domestic workers spend more time with other people’s families than with their own. And even though they work hard, there is little money left over to send home to their families, or to leave behind for their children and dependants should anything happen to them or to fall back on if they are no longer able to work due to an injury or disability. Looking after your domestic worker’s best interests goes beyond just paying them a monthly salary. More than 1.5-million South Africans work as domestic workers, cleaners, caretakers and gardeners but many of them don’t have benefits offered to them by their employers. Earlier this year, the government announced a minimum wage of R3,500 per month, which translates to R20 an hour for a 40-hour working week. Taking into account transport, food and school fees, among other expenses, domestic workers aren’t left with much money to save, let alone take out insurance in case something should happen to them. Here are five ways you can help those who take care of your family: Did you know your domestic worker is also at risk of being injured while on duty? Yambu Domestic Care offers the opportunity to limit the employer’s expense when such accidents happen. For R149 per month, the policy offers a personal accident benefit of up to R6,000, a maternity benefit of up to R8,000, a temporary or permanent disability benefit of up to R30,000 and a life benefit payout to the elected benefactors of up to R30,000. If you think you can’t afford R1,788 per year, think of it as giving up two or three restaurant meals or a luxury purchase. You can help your domestic workers worry less about their families’ security and make them feel more appreciated.  This article was paid for by Yambu.